Jonquil edits for Field Lab 8 (#65)
replicatedhq/kots-field-labs: labs/lab08-airgap-lite/README.md

Lab 1.8: Airgap
=========================================

> In this lab, you will review how to perform installations and collect support bundles in air gap environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lab, you will review how to install Kubernetes applications and collect [troubleshoot.sh](https://troubleshoot.sh) support bundles in air gap environments.
```

* **What you will do**:
    * Access and verify a single node air gap setup using a bastion server

>     * Learn to use app manager to install in an air gap environment

Reviewer: Since this is for a more general audience 

```suggestion
    * Learn to use the [kURL.sh](https://kurl.sh) Kubernetes Installer in an air gap environment
    * Learn to use app manager to install in an air gap environment
```

    * Create an SSH tunnel to configure an air gap instance
    * Perform an upgrade of an application in an air gap environment
    * Use the `kubectl support-bundle` CLI in an air gap environment
* **Who this lab is for**:
    * Anyone who builds or maintains app manager applications (see note below)
    * Full Stack / DevOps / Product Engineers
* **Prerequisites**:
    * Basic working knowledge of Kubernetes
* **Outcomes**:

>     * You will be ready to deliver a app manager application into an air gap environment

Reviewer: Since this is a more general audience, what do y'all think about trying to downplay the Replicated product verbiage here where its not crucial to understanding

```suggestion
    * You will be ready to deliver a Kubernetes application into an air gap environment
```

    * You will build confidence in performing upgrades and troubleshooting in air gap environments

## Overview

> Starting with a bare air gap server, so you will practice performing an air gap install from scratch.

Reviewer: Did we lose some words in the first part of this sentence?

> Then you will explore how some of the support techniques differ between online and air gap environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you will explore how support techniques differ between online and air gap environments.
```

${REPLICATED_APP}-lab08-airgap-lite
```

### Connecting to the air gap server

1. Set your application slug, the public IP of your jump box, and your first name:

  ```shell
  $ export JUMP_BOX_IP=<ip_address>
  $ export REPLICATED_APP=<application_slug>

>   $ export FIRST_NAME=<your_first_name> # use lower case

Reviewer: we have generally had in our style guide to avoid the `$` bash prompt in multiline shell scripts 

https://github.com/replicatedhq/kots.io/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#multi-line-code-snippets-should-not-have-the-bash-prompt

  ```
  These will run in the foreground, and you will not see any output.

2. Perform an SSH command into the air gap server:

  ```shell
  $ ssh -J ${FIRST_NAME}@${JUMP_BOX_IP} ${FIRST_NAME}@${REPLICATED_APP}-lab08-airgap-lite
  ```

  The `-J` option, allows connections to the target host by first making a ssh connection to the jump host (`${JUMP_BOX_IP}`) described by destination and then establishing a TCP forwarding to the ultimate destination (`${REPLICATED_APP}-lab08-airgap-lite`) from there.

  Alternatively, you can also do the same thing using multiple steps:

  ```shell
  local> ssh ${FIRST_NAME}@${JUMP_BOX_IP}
  jump> export REPLICATED_APP=<application_slug>
  jump> ssh ${REPLICATED_APP}-lab08-airgap-lite
  ```

3. After you are on the air gap server, verify that the server does not have internet access using the following command:

  ```shell
  curl -v https://kubernetes.io
  ```

>   This command will fail if there is no internet connection, which means that your environment is safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This command will fail if there is no internet connection, which means that your environment is configured correctly.
```

4. Press **ctrl+C**.

5. Log out of the air gap instance with `exit` or press **ctrl+D**.

***
## Moving assets into place

Our next step is to collect the assets we need for an air gap installation:

* An air gap bundle containing the kURL cluster components
* An air gap bundle containing the application components
* A license with the air gap entitlement enabled

The air gap bundles are separate artifacts used to cut down on bundle size during upgrade scenarios where only the application version is changing and no changes are needed to the underlying cluster.

#### Starting the kURL bundle download

1. From your home directory, run the SSH command to your jump box that uses the public IP:

  ```text
  ssh ${FIRST_NAME}@${JUMP_BOX_IP}
  ```
2. Enter the password.
3. Download the kURL bundle.

##### Enabling air gap for a customer

> 1. Log in to the vendor web at link:http://endor.replicated.com.

Reviewer 2: This is missing a `v` and should be vendor.replicated.com
